They are all living to Him, powerful text.
Jehovah is the God of the living.
To Jehovah, death is not goodbye, but see you later.
Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob are living in Jehovah's memory
until his appointed time to resurrect them.
How comforting it is to know that faithful servants of God,
including our dead loved ones, will return to life
and are living in Jehovah's limitless memory at this time.
He will bring them back in his due time.
Now, during a funeral talk,
we might hear the words of Ecclesiastes 7 verse 2.
Reminding us that when a loved one dies,
the living should take it to heart.
In other words, we should think about our own life
and what we're doing to make a good name with God
to become his friends.
If you were to give a memorial service for Abraham,
what would you include?
How would you condense his 175 years into 30 minutes
in a funeral talk or a 10-minute morning worship program?
When did Abraham live?
According to Bible chronology from 2018 to 1843 BCE.
At Isaiah 41 verse 8, Abraham was spoken of as Jehovah's friend.
Yes, over 1,000 years after his death,
Abraham was still living in Jehovah's memory.
But we find other similar expressions
at 2 Chronicles 20 verse 7 written about 460 BCE,
and James 223 written before 62 CE,
and Abraham is living to Jehovah even today.
But why?
What exceptional qualities,
what outstanding qualities made Jehovah,
excuse me, made Abraham a friend of Jehovah?
Well, let's consider just three ways
and then how we can imitate Abraham.
First, Abraham willingly made sacrifices to serve Jehovah.
If you turn to Hebrews chapter 11,
notice with me please verses 8 through 10.
It says, by faith Abraham, when he was called,
obeyed by going out to a place he was to receive as an inheritance,
he went out, although not knowing where he was going.
By faith, he lived as a foreigner in the land of promise
as in a foreign land,
living intense with Isaac and Jacob,
the heirs with him of the very same promise,
for he was awaiting the city having real foundations,
whose designer and builder is God.
Well, first Abraham moved from earth,
a city with modern conveniences to hay ran,
which had beehive shaped huts.
Well, was Abraham's next move an upgrade in his living accommodations?
Well, that depends on your perspective.
If you enjoy sleeping under the stars, then yes.
But Abraham was willing to live intense
as he awaited the future realities of God's kingdom.
Really, Abraham had no place to call home.
And that meant that Sarah, his wife,
had no place to call home.
But neither Abraham nor Sarah were resentful
for their sacrifices.
Verse 15 says, and yet if they had kept remembering the place
from which they had departed,
they would have had opportunity to return.
Abraham and his wife, Sarah,
cherished their service to Jehovah
despite some material disadvantages.
Well, what's the lesson?
How can we take it to heart?
Well, isn't life and full-time service full of sacrifices?
But we don't live intense,
but we could be asked to serve in a different department,
a different complex, a different branch.
We might be asked to work extra hours from time to time.
Jehovah certainly loves those who willingly, joyfully,
sacrifice for him.
What's a second outstanding quality of Abraham?
We find the answer in Genesis chapter 13 verses 8 and 9.
Genesis 13, 8 and 9.
What happened when the flocks and goods of Abraham and Lot
became too many to reside in one place?
Notice, Genesis 13, 8, so Abraham said to Lot,
please, there should be no quarreling between me and you
and my herdsmen and your herdsmen.
For we are brothers.
Is not the whole land available to you?
Please separate from me.
If you go to the left, then I will go to the right.
But if you go to the right, then I will go to the left.
What's the point?
Abraham was a peacemaker.
He was selfless, not selfish.
He didn't say, well, I've got this seniority here.
Instead, he gave the first choice to his nephew Lot.
Abraham was selfless.
Well, sadly, Lot picked the well-watered region of the Jordan
and lived among the cities of the district.
He later pitched his tent near Sodom.
Later, he was living in Sodom.
Well, how did Abraham react when Lot was later taken captive?
Chapter 14 informs us.
Verse 14 says,
Sorry, Lot, you're on your own here.
You're the one who decided to live in Sodom.
No notice how the verse continues.
With that, he mobilized his trained men,
318 servants born in his household
and he went and pursued up to Dan.
During the night, he divided his forces
and he and his servants attacked and defeated them.
And he pursued them up to Holba,
which is north of Damascus.
He recovered all the goods
and he also recovered Lot, his relative,
his goods, the women and the other people.
Abraham went out of his way to rescue Lot.
From the south of what would later become Israel,
he pursued the attackers all the way to Dan,
to Damascus and even north, farther north, to Holba.
What are the lessons?
How can we take it to heart?
Are we peacemakers?
Are we selfless?
Do we avoid the entitlement mentality
that is thinking that we deserve certain favors or privileges?
Are we willing to offer help to other servants of Jehovah,
even if they've made bad decisions at times?
Jehovah certainly cherishes those
who display qualities similar to Abraham.
What's a third way?
We can learn a lot from Abraham's display of hospitality
at Genesis chapter 18 verses 1 through 8.
And this will demonstrate that Abraham gave Jehovah his best.
Verses 2 and 3, we notice
when these visitors came to him.
What did he do?
He looked up and saw three men standing
some distance from him
when he saw them.
He ran from the entrance of the tent to meet them
and he bowed down to the ground.
Then he said,
Jehovah, if I have found favor in your eyes, please,
do not pass by your servant.
When Abraham saw these men who were materialized angels,
representatives of Jehovah,
he ran to meet them.
Now, that in itself might not seem so remarkable
until we think about the fact that
Abraham was 99 years old
and this was the hottest part of the day.
Quite impressive.
Well, after his visitors agreed to remain for a little water
and a piece of bread,
as the account says,
what did Abraham do?
Verses 6 through 8 tell us.
So Abraham hurried to the tent to Sarah
and said,
quick, get three measures of fine flour.
Need the dough and make loaves of bread.
Next, Abraham ran to the herd
and chose a tender and good young bull.
He gave it to the attendant who hurried to prepare it.
He then took butter and milk
and the young bull that he had prepared
and set the food before them.
Then he stood by them under the tree
as they were eating.
Three measures of fine flour were used to make the bread.
According to the footnote,
each see a measure of flour
amounted to more than six quarts.
To those of you who are bakers in our audience,
that's 24 cups of flour for each loaf of bread.
Imagine that loaf of bread.
Well, what else did Abraham offer to his guests?
These representatives of a Jehovah.
A tender and good young bull, the account says.
Maybe we on occasion have enjoyed a tender steak
with freshly baked bread smeared with butter.
What's the point?
Abraham gave Jehovah his best.
Is this the only time the scriptures record Abraham
giving his best to Jehovah?
Well, chapter 22 relates how Abraham was willing
to give his son Isaac to Jehovah.
Sacrifice his precious son.
The lesson for us.
Do we give Jehovah our best?
In our daily service at Bethel,
what are we offering to our God?
A tender and good young bull,
freshly baked bread and butter,
or something less appealing?
So what have we learned?
Abraham's life demonstrated his faith in Jehovah.
He willingly made sacrifices in Jehovah's service.
He was a peacemaker, selfless in his dealings with others,
and he gave his very best to Jehovah.
If we do the same, then just like Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob,
we will forever remain friends of Jehovah, the God of the living.